this weird B2B content strategy is going
to drive you more Pipeline with less
[Music]
output welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
darning and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying my weekday
emails for unusual B2B marketing tips
experiments SEO ideas and podcast
updates head over to breaking bb.com and
hit that newsletter tab so joining me
today I've got Justin Simon Justin is
the founder over at distribution first
welcome to the show sir how are we
excellent Sam thanks for having me on no
worries dude looking forward to the chat
so we're gonna be diving into what a
good content strategy means from a B2B
perspective how you can stand out when
there's so much noise B2B with media
LinkedIn posts blog articles YouTube
content podcast and
more how to create content that actually
drives pipeline Revenue inbounds leads
and more and how you can do more with
less production and
time so with that so many people claim
to know what quote unquote good content
is in the B2B space yet you've only got
to scroll around on YouTube check out a
few podcasts and Linkedin to see there's
so much stuff that still sing need to
sleep so what does make a good content
strategy from a B2B perspective today
Justin oh man yeah that is uh that is
the question right and especially and AI
doesn't make it any easier um you know
the easy button that everybody wants
with marketing or whatever they're doing
in life uh you know now that I can just
have ai go write me some stuff uh you
know that's got to be the way the way
forward right and I think taking a step
back and looking at it you know good is
obviously subjective I think
ultimately with content marketing um you
know when you think about building a
Content strategy ultimate your ultimate
goal is to sell something at the end of
the day um I think where folks get
tripped up is trying to do that all at
once or trying to do that with an
all-in-one piece of content and not
understanding the full scope of
somebody's life cycle or how somebody
wants to buy or how people even buy
today um just kind of especially in B2B
I think it's a slow move toward this
idea of self select and like the idea of
not wanting to talk to a
salesperson um but me wanting to do as
much research as humanly possible and so
I think from a Content strategy and a
Content marketing perspective that's
where the opportunity lies is how can I
provide as much information and value
ahead of time to try to answer as many
questions as you might have so rather
than calling up our sales team and
trying to wonder
hey what what do you guys do or I think
I need this they're coming armed with
that knowledge and with that opportunity
to say awesome I already know exactly
what you stand for I know what your POV
is I know I've been seeing you
everywhere uh and I'm ready to go what
what what does this what does this look
like um I think the that's the best way
that I've seen sort of content work it's
not a silver bullet it's not an easy
button it does take work to try to build
those strategies and test things but
ultimately that's the goal
you tired of competitors ranking above
you on Google stealing traffic leads and
mind share from dream clients every time
they're searching for your services or
offers on Google a breaking B2B we fix
that with our unusual approach to SEO
content marketing and websites we craft
B2B SEO strategies and websites for
Revenue not vanity head over to Breaking
B2B . to check our results pricing or to
book a call with
me got it got it so we are we saying
influencing our Target prospects so that
almost our offering becomes the the next
logical decision for them as well as
providing almost sales enablement so
we're like you said arming our sales
team with not just random content but
I'm guessing media
which comes in many forms could be
YouTube episodes podcasts articles and
I'm sure we'll dive into some of this
stuff but so they've actually got useful
stuff there that I guess they can send
out to prospects in their pipeline or
that folks can see before maybe even
reaching out for a a sales conversation
demo or whatever that logical step is
with your
company yeah absolutely and
understanding how that content is going
to be used at that particular stage of
the funnel um you you know something you
you supply buy or give to somebody who's
further down the funnel they might need
pricing um they might need you know
feature sets they might need security
option they might you know there's
there's a different level of things you
might need at that stage versus I'm
problem aware and I kind of know what
the problem is but like how do you guys
solve that oh awesome here's another um
piece of content so it's again there's a
lot of like as I think about it it's
just taking a breath taking that step
back to understand the intent of the
audience understand why somebody is you
know it's not just oh here's our list of
things that we send to people here's the
list of things we put on podcasts it's
like no it's like what's the intent of
that of that piece of content you're
creating yeah yeah yeah I I love that
mindset and I want to get into a bit of
a step by step a bit later in the
episode of how B2B and SAS companies can
put this into play um a bit of a
stepping stone and I think it is it is
difficult especially for some smaller
marketing teams or marketing teams of
one are perhaps tuning in or solo
Founders when they maybe think well I
see these brands on they're on LinkedIn
they're on Tik Tok they're producing
podcasts they're on YouTube they're
pumping out articles like I need to try
and keep up with that and as a result
they spread theel so thin their content
is in a lot of places but it's not
really doing much because they may be
doing like one episode per Channel per
month or something like that or
something even less so like what what do
you say to those folks that are kind of
seeing their maybe their giant
competitors doing all this stuff and
then trying to keep up with the Joneses
let's say yeah we all like to keep up
with the Joneses we all like to try and
and and see what we've got I think
there's there is uh the tough part about
the about where the internet is today is
we see the results but we don't see the
inputs so we don't know we see Gary ve
everywhere we see horoi everywhere we
see you know or even X Y and Z company
uh that's doing it really well but we
really have no clue uh how much time
effort money budget people uh people
power goes into that result and so I
think sometimes it's very easy for us to
uh
overexp what we can actually produce or
what we can actually distribute and how
how what we can do with what we have and
so um I think that I think that's just
one piece of it but I will say um there
are companies uh you know and there are
marketers who are able to do that get
the most out of the thing things that
they are creating and I think that's the
key is if you are going to do that
strategy um I would think about limiting
the amount of bigger pieces that you're
creating so that you can have time to
focus on the repurposing the
distribution and getting that content
out there I think that's one thing that
a lot of um that's sort of trending in
marketing right now is people coming to
this awareness of oh I need to actually
distribute the stuff I'm creating which
is great um that's not how it was uh
five years ago it was very a publish in
Hope Google somehow does something with
it or like yeah when people search this
uh and it's like well is anybody going
to search that topic maybe not uh so um
from that perspective I think just
having a realistic take on what you can
and can't do and then I always suggest
focusing on one or two channels to start
and then expanding from there I think
it's way too easy like when I talk about
the distribution first framework it's
really four phases starting at
Foundation moving into EX ution
optimizing and then maximizing it's the
fourth phase and what folks like to do
is jump to the fourth phase before
they've even set up a process or
anything in place to actually make that
happen so what you're talking about is
like we're GNA be on Twitter and send
our LinkedIn email and do this podcast
and oh now we're on YouTube and we're
gonna do shorts and it's like that's a
lot of stuff like you're you're
maximizing before you even have built
your foundation on like what are your
povs what channels really matter what
messages do you want to consist stantly
get out and that's how you end up on a
bunch of channels with tons of random
messages and then you burn out two
months later because I can't do all this
I think there there's probably a lot of
B2B service providers or agency owners
or similar that will tune into this and
think yeah I hear that from prospects or
clients so many times like in our world
in in in my world in the SEO space it
might be I want to ramp up my traffic by
50% or I want to pump out all these blog
articles or I want to build out these
landing pages and be like that's great
but why are we doing that like let's
take a step back think about the
strategy like you probably want to do
this to drive more sales calls or leads
or signups like we've got to think about
how this is relevant to your idle client
profile and what they might be searching
for because there's no point doing it
for the sake of it it's got to have a
rock solid strategy or it's going to be
a Wast of your time your cash our
resource it's not going to drive the end
result that everyone's hoping for which
is probably kind of qualified sales Ops
or pipelines so love that point are
there any other kind of common mistakes
you see Justin when it comes to B2B
companies and their content plays their
content
strategies I mean there there's probably
more numerous than we could even than we
could even talk about at this point
right like there are companies doing
things really really well but there
there are also just um companies that
struggle and ultimately to me it comes
down to a lot of misalignment there's a
lot of internal things there's I mean
there's so many factors that go into uh
why um you know we'll say like bad
content strategies get implemented or um
you know why bad content quote unquote
bad content gets created um but I think
at the end of the day it does come down
to what you just talked about which is
like just having a strategy and and
knowing kind of knowing what path you're
moving towards so having having goals
are great like um you know I heard I
heard it said once like every Everybody
every athlete in the Olympics their goal
is the same gold medal like the goal
doesn't really matter it's the system in
order to get you in that place to be
able to do that thing it's the strategy
you implement to be able to actually
execute and get a gold medal or set set
yourself up to be able to get that gold
medal um goals are great having having
those things set are great but then like
being able to actually do that is
totally
different got it so you you touched upon
it just now sounds like you've got a a
bit of a system that your client's
prospects follow be great to to break
that down so for anyone tuning in
marketers Founders that perhaps want to
dig into more of a consistent strategy
and at the same time means that they can
get more bang for buck out of the
content that they do put out in in the
distribution sense so what's the what's
the very first step they should
take I think the very I mean the very
first step that I always advise folks is
to take a look at at their messages that
they're sending out or that they want to
be known for because ultimately when
you're creating content you you want to
tap into that what are your what's your
POV on that message or that topic so
what's your unique POV because every the
message itself is not unique your
competitors will be talking about that
same message but your take on that your
experience in that and it might be your
Founders it might be somebody who's the
at the company but tap into those folks
to be able to speak to that POV and then
from there
understanding the channels that you want
to be able to share those things on and
like we talked about like minimizing the
the amount of of channels that you have
and really it's all the foundation is
all about setting guard rails so we
don't have 12 messages going out with no
povs uh across four channels we've got
four messages with four strong points of
view that we're sending out on two
channels and everything gets filtered
through that and once you have those
things set that's when you can actually
go back to your existing Content Library
and start to audit what we have in each
of those categories that we can then
create and share back out into the world
and so just a very basic example would
say I have my podcast I've just re I've
got you know 50 episodes 20 episodes
whatever it is uh i' I've now decided I
have these three core messages at the
end of the year I want people to know
that we
you know I help do these things and my
strong points of view on them are x y
and z now what I'm going to do is
actually go back to that library and
start auditing my content to say all
right which what do I have that's
existing that fits into these buckets
and now but after I get done doing that
and if you have a blogger you're a bdb
company with a Blog I'm sure you know
the options are endless depending on how
long you've been blogging but you can fi
you what you'll see is you actually find
a bunch of content that you already have
speaking to those messages and then you
can take that and start repurposing
remixing it maybe you take a couple of
those podcast episodes mash them
together and become a guide or maybe you
take those um that webinar on that topic
and cut it up and start dripping those
things back out on social media with
your new povs attached to them and so
that that's kind of the the Baseline
Foundation of of being able to do some
of this stuff is none of what I just
talked about was creating anything brand
new
MH let's break that down a bit further
so one of the the first points you said
was the messaging side of things and
having a point of view are there any
tips or examples so I guess folks tuning
in can make sure that if they've got
perhaps a few choices there they can
make sure what they're going to put into
the market hits home and then perhaps
after that we can kind of dive into
channels to choose that make sense
yeah I there's a couple questions that I
would think about um well the main one
being kind of like what do you and we've
already touched on some of these things
but like what do you see that's wrong
with your current marketplace with the
current world in which your company
exists in if you sell uh if if you're a
a B2B paid ads agency what's wrong with
current with the way people do B2B paid
ads typically um you know what rubs you
the wrong way uh a lot of those things
can start or you know if you're if
you're the content person you're not the
expert talk to your smmes talk to your
Founders talk to you know why did you
start this business what what do you see
where do you see the business moving um
that it isn't what are some of the thing
and those will sort of evolve those
takes um I think it's it's really clear
that your povs have to be yours or like
your company like they can't just be
made up like I've got this strong
opinion I'm just going to have a strong
opinion um that might work for a post
but over time that's that that'll wear
thin um because ultimately you have to
be able to speak to your point of view
point of view through your own
experiences or through the experiences
that are shared within your company um
so I think understanding what those
things are and then on the sort of flip
side of that another one is just
passions so what are you passionate
about what are those things that um you
know get you up in the morning that get
you excited to to help solve these
problems um and and and really try to
speak into those as well and I think
ultimately the tough part with povs is
you're really looking for something
especially with a really strong POV or a
spiky point of view as as some people
call it is you want something that's a
little bit polarizing um you know not
everybody is that way but you should
your your point of view should be strong
enough that people are either like
nodding their head or like E I don't I
don't know about that like that guy's
you know he's he's full of crap
there's a lot of that at the time of
recording this anyway going around in in
LinkedIn like hooks yeah so for anyone
that's not familiar with that when you
scroll LinkedIn you'll see maybe the
first two or three lines before you
click the see more button and it feels
like almost anyone that wants to get a
post to take off right now has to start
it with this is how I scaled my company
from zero to 250 million against like
the growing pressures of VC funding
know there were so many successful
companies and I I like almost every now
it's like how I scale from zero to 250
million with fec's with axes ready to
kill
me yep yeah I I was yeah it's it's
sometimes hilarious how I mean X is the
same way but is any of these social
media platforms you go on there and
again like I think that's where it's you
know being true and being authentic to
who you are you know maybe that's true
and authentic to somebody it would not
be true and authentic to me to just sort
of like spout things off and you know I
think I've had conversations with folks
too and it's like oh people just lie
like people just straight up lie and
it's like it's hard for me to like think
about doing that because I would have a
really hard time in doing that but there
are absolutely people on the internet
who are just straight up lying in every
single hook they do and trying to sell
you a service they're trying to sell you
something yeah yeah yeah there's some
there's some weird ones out there and
how do I I I think the the picking
faults with your industry is cool that
is literally the foundation of of my
business really our headline our
homepage is is B2B SEO and websites for
Revenue not vanity for many reasons I've
shared on the show before just because
we got kind of pissed off with what
other agencies were doing and wanted to
take a stand for it so I love that and I
love that
concept how do we is there a way that
when you're kind of picking this this
point of view and this this messaging
and these there's almost a foundations
of your content strategy that it can
actually that you're ensuring that at
the same time it's tied back to your
product or your offer because a lot of
folks go crazy with this stuff and
sometimes they have a really cool point
of view but it's not actually tied back
to product or offer so they might be
getting eyeballs or whatever the or
visits or traffic but it's not putting
cash in the
bank yeah 1,000 and it's funny uh I was
trying to find it when I brought up here
because I had a couple other question or
a couple other questions in top topics I
use when I think about things and the
the the number two is how do your
services or products solve the pain
points of your target audience you know
as you're framing up your points of view
I think to your point Sam you hit it the
nail on the head is is you know
ultimately if our goal is to sell
something having a strong point of view
around something you don't sell or don't
or don't help people with it's okay but
like me having a strong opinion on water
quality
doesn't matter to what I you know I
don't sell water uh but if I did sell
water having a strong opinion around
water quality and how it needs to be
pure in X Y and Z and there's this and
that like that would make a ton of sense
and so I I think to your point yeah like
ultimately your points of view only
matter uh from a marketing perspective
if they tie back to what you actually
sell and in in relate to the service
that you provide yeah makes sense makes
sense
so
picking you I think you said pick a
couple channels to start with any tips
for how to pick channels that are going
to make
sense yeah I mean right off the top of
my head again it's going to be different
for everybody but three things that I
would think about as your picking
channels is number one know your
audience so you should know your
audience better than anybody else and
know where they're at um it's easy for
probably uh me and you Sam to be like oh
LinkedIn is the obvious choice we're in
B2B we sell to B2B we talk to a bunch of
people in B2B and if you are doing that
yes LinkedIn does make a ton of sense um
but there are tons of Industries where
LinkedIn may or may not make sense there
are a ton of Industries where
specific industry forums might make a
ton of sense for somebody to be present
on and to hang out in and to get to know
those folks I mean it's no like very
similar like why do we all hang out on
LinkedIn so we can get to know the folks
and understand their problems and talk
to them so maybe you have an industry
Forum that's that's that same way that
you can do that with so but knowing your
audience knowing where they're hanging
out um and I think just knowing also
what's worth the time and energy to do
so just because you can't can post that
same video on Instagram um if your
audience isn't there probably doesn't
matter um it's probably just taking up
mind space and and time for you to do
that so
again I think just thinking through and
where your audience is at and then and
whittling those down um the other huge
one honestly is just understanding the
channel a lot of a lot of folks just
blindly put content out on on a channel
right like I I posted my video on shorts
well there's a very like let's take
YouTube shorts as a great example
Because unless you spend the time on
that and understand that if you put a
video that's vertical and all that if
you put it and it's over 59 seconds it's
not going to show up correctly as a
short it's actually going to show up as
a normal video that looks odd and again
it's the the small nuances to to each
Channel and you might be putting out
just tons of like two or three minute
vertical Clips being like Oh Our shorts
are going to take off and they never
show up as shorts or you might be
putting up one minute and 4 second
shorts that never show up as shorts and
actually look weird on your channel and
and they don't have a proper thumbnail
it's it's odd but again it's knowing the
channel and there are nuances to every
single one of these things X has their
own nuances LinkedIn has its Nu nuances
so I think understanding those and then
final the third thing that trips people
up is uh not choosing a channel that
they actually enjoy and this isn't
everybody doesn't have this option but
if you do have this option choose a
channel you enjoy if you do not like
doing video don't do it right now even
if you even if everybody is telling you
to do video
um unless you're interested in learning
it and like getting over that growth
curve and trying to that but like if you
hate it you're not going to do it if you
hate writing long form you're GNA hate
doing blogging and newsletters um or
maybe you just have to adjust what those
things look like for you but I think
choosing a channel and and being able to
focus on those that will help you level
up again that's the that's phase two
kind of execution like when you start to
execute on that stuff that informs you
so you can then optimize and Max
maximize what you're doing
that third point is great that third
point is great I think I think that's a
good good point in general around not
necessarily enjoying all of the work
that you do but at least enjoying an
aspect of it because it's almost like
starting your own business I mean for
example I hate paperwork I hate
accounting I hate Finance I love
creating content love marketing love
selling love producing stuff any of the
kind of tax keeping the the writing what
the finance I'm terrible at that's what
I'll Outsource it um but if you can
let's say you're employed like if you're
a marketer in a business you can enjoy
some element of it and perhaps for you
that is podcasting and interviewing
industry folks in your industry so you
can learn from them build relationships
with them and produce great content then
if you can enjoy that little nugget like
that it makes such a difference and that
shines through right doesn't it in
whether that's video whether that's
audio whether that's a written piece of
content people are gonna gonna feel that
in a way that's not necessarily
super tangible but they're gonna it's
going to shine through and when you and
when you're choosing less right like
when you're focusing down in picking one
or two that gives you that freedom and
flexibility to act like I don't
understand Tik Tock well if I'm just
doing Tik Tok and Linkedin like okay
cool I can I now I'm freeing myself up
to be able to learn that platform and be
able to actually understand it and start
to learn those nuances versus if it was
one of five six other channels that I'm
trying to do at that point you're
literally just trying to get that stuff
out and post it like it's it's just the
natural reaction that there is if you're
uh even if you're on a team with a
couple people who are working on things
like it's just I think human nature to
be like all right this there's there's a
lot going on I'm just gonna you know I'm
just going to post these things out and
get it to work versus if you're focusing
on a couple that allows you to actually
um kind of have the creativ creativity
and like creative space to be able to
learn that new that new platform
got it
so you mentioned just now about having
utilizing a catalog of existing content
so that could be let's say you decided
to double down on video and that could
be that you've got past blog articles so
like I don't know maybe some of them are
how to choose the best vendor in your
space and you read decide that you're
going to squeeze that down into a long
form video breakdown or something like
but what if we don't have a a solid back
catalog of content that we can arm
ourselves with like what if we're
struggling a bit any any ideas that I
think there's absolutely no harm in
talking to folks that you're trying to
sell to I mean if you're if you're early
on like don't even have product Market
fit or or don't certainly don't wouldn't
have probably like a Content Market fit
at that point like understanding what
your audience actually even needs um I
think talking to actual
humans um you can never go wrong in
doing that uh and I would say do that
first of all because you're going to get
context you're GNA be able to ask
questions all that type of stuff on the
flip side there is this thing called
artificial intelligence that you can use
to help formulate some of these ideas so
if you are just trying to get some
content ideas or understand what might
be interesting um you can absolutely use
a tool like chat jpt or other tools to
be able to help you you know you can
prompt your way into getting some uh
content ideas that might be interesting
and then take and kind of run with those
and how I would suggest that too is
start small so if you've got a new
content idea rather than creating the
brand new podcast or the um you know
doing a big old webinar potentially
start on a smaller distribution Channel
like LinkedIn or uh email or something
like that where it's the lift isn't as
high you can you can kind of test and
validate that idea ahead of
time yeah yeah that's that's good I mean
customer research makes sense like
that's that's going to be super useful
if you've got some existing customers
that were recently signed up with your
services or your offer your SAS then you
can you can ask them questions like if
they're up up for an interview you can
understand like what are the channels
that you actually use like do you listen
to podcast or do you go to events or is
there a certain industry like you said
Forum or group that you tend to hang out
in and when you start seeing patterns in
those responses it's going to be really
useful to actually know where it's going
to be worth your time and where it's
definitely not going to be worth your
time and at the same time they'll give
probably give you some insights into
during that sales process like some of
the questions that they might be asking
or maybe some of the objections they're
bringing up to your sales team that's
going to be quite useful content that
might be worth you tackling or
considering scheduling um yeah so we've
talked about quite a lot of the
foundational stuff around messaging
point of view
channels enjoying it tying it back to
your product and so forth like what's
once we've kind of let's say we we put
all that into play we've got that
foundational stuff perhaps we've put
that all together in a Google doc like
what's the what's the next thing we do
now we're going to start executing we're
going to start actually shipping thatu
out we've got our plan we know what we
want to do we're going to start how I
think about it is uh I call them
distribution Docks but now there are
tools or other things you can use for
this but it's for me a simple blank
Google doc or a notion doc or however
you want to do it um and it's really
just kind of starting to break those
pieces
out so if you have a podcast what are
the main topics what are the main things
that we talked about what are all all of
those you know solid bits and pieces
that are inside that what channels do we
want to create that content on and then
how do we create that sort of platform
native or zero click type content for um
those specific channels so if I'm
creating uh a LinkedIn or a series of
LinkedIn posts out of that podcast what
are the individual valuable nuggets that
I can pull out and share to where
somebody can get value and get
information without ever having to
actually listen to the full podcast if
I'm sending an email what's the value
that somebody can get out of that that
without having to listen to the full
podcast or watch a full webinar or read
the full blog post and again it's I
think that's a shift too is moving away
from just the promotional promotional
post to click or the promotional email
to click hey we have this new thing go
listen hey we have this new thing go
watch it hey we have this webinar sign
up um rather than doing that it's
actually creating types of content that
want to that spur interest and and make
somebody want to go uh actually check
that thing out and there are tons of
creative ways um that you can do that um
I mean even when I was at metadata one
of the most creative things that we did
ahead of uh of our demand event when
when I was there was we actually had we
brought speakers on that were going to
be at the event and we brought them on
and had them talk about topics that were
just adjacent to what their talk was
going to be on the podcast months in
advance and so then by the time we
announced the speaker list and had that
it was such an easy tie into the other
event we were going to do but again it
felt natural it was like Hey if and by
the way if you like this topic like go
sign up for demand it's you know it just
makes it such a more natural tie in to
what we were doing versus um than what
it probably could have been or what the
typical B2B play
is nice nice is there any best practices
in your opinion when it comes to like a
this we've talked about is like pillar
content or long form content so for
example you might might choose video be
that perhaps your founder talking in
front of camera and you you cue them up
with some some set questions that you
want them to attack or maybe it's a a
podcast where you like you just
mentioned there you're interviewing of
potential prospects or folks with that
that are knowledgeable within your
industry or within your sector um when
it comes to actually a distribution
strategy for that you you shared some
nice ideas about what we call zero click
content within within LinkedIn so it's
not just head over to here to catch the
full episode with an image and a link
but it's actually diving into a nugget
in some detail sharing some tips some
insights some ideas and then if you want
to check out the full thing like check
the comments or check this link whatever
are there any kind of guidelines around
distribution like what tends to work
well and and what you should avoid
really because like there's there's so
many bad ways of doing it and there's at
the same time there's some nice way ways
of doing it that almost has the piece
standing as a a piece of content like
hold I think that's probably at its core
how I would think about it is just how
do you make that P how do you make that
piece sort of stand on its own um and I
think thinking about that ahead of time
can actually make your core content that
pillar content that you're creating
better so I mean a very simple example
that I use a lot is you know if you're
thinking if you're writing a blog post
let's say and you're like I've got to
share this on LinkedIn or you and you
like know that ahead of time in your
editing phase it will change how you
view that edit because it's not only
just about that standard piece of
content it's about what are the sections
in here that are interesting um how
could I take that and maybe add a a
listicle inside of it or just change how
it's formatted so it it makes it more
prone and more natural to be able to
share that back out um you know there
things missing that would be beneficial
for somebody knowing we want to want to
share that back out and so I think just
understanding having that at the
Forefront uh before you even create
something is going to change how you
create it and then I think the biggest
thing is having a what I would call like
a Content floor so what's your Baseline
what's your non-negotiable
non-negotiable Baseline of for your
content for your
distribution um so is it one email a
week in three days on LinkedIn or is it
you know whatever that ends up being I I
think having that Baseline of what
content you're creating so is it a
podcast every week uh is it a webinar
every month um is it a blog post every
two day like whatever that is like what
is that and then what is the standard
content floor Distribution off of that
that you can meet that you can
realistically meet and I think at the
start for folks it's probably not much
you know it's like can we get three
LinkedIn posts that get shared out once
a week each of the following weeks after
this podcast goes live like that should
that should not be that difficult to do
um and then just making sure those
things get scheduled out and then again
that's that's your execution Baseline
and then from there you can start to
optimize from there you can start to
maximize nice yeah I love the
foundational stuff I love the fact of a
lot of it is just mapping out of what
you can what you can commit to what a
sensible flow or Cadence is going to be
don't go too crazy at the start set
something that's actually going to be
realistic so you're not going to get
there the week before and think I can't
be asked to make this video this week or
I can't be asked to put out these emails
or these LinkedIn posts whatever those
kind of foundational channels you decide
on so it's it's uh it's actually
achievable and then slowly ramping it up
so as we as we go on like how can we
make sure that what we're putting out
because I'm sure that when marketers are
wanting to get more resource or more Buy
in or maybe more budget for assistance
with some of these things the roadblock
they're probably going to stumble in
with the exact team or leadership team
is like how can we make sure that this
is definitely going to tie in to
bringing back some sales opportunities
and revenue what would your what would
your response be
there definite tying into revenue is
tough uh that's probably that's probably
a conversation to have um you know it's
always hard right because you never want
to be in a place where you're trying to
tie a LinkedIn post to driving more
Revenue like you don't want that's a bad
place to be in if that's what your
bosses are asking for you it might be
time to like just look around and see
you know see what else is out there or
see who you know that that's a bad spot
to be in that is a spot a lot of
marketers are in though as well like all
right we're g to send this email how
many XY you know what are we going to
get out of it um and I think just taking
a step back it's it's probably more so
about looking at where the business's
health is at in comparison to what
you're doing on the marketing side in a
more macro environment right so over a
longer period of time maybe take a
quarter um and see like leads in
pipeline uh revenue and then take you
know from your output what did we do
what did we send what did you know I
think the more zoomed out you can get
the better like cuz any given month can
be down and then then you're going to
try to shift your strategy when it
really wasn't anything people were just
on vacation and or like maybe you didn't
send something that you could have or
there's so many factors that go into
that so I think just from that
perspective in terms of like how do you
start to know I think taking a little
bit of a wider look and then
understanding that marketing marketing
is just one piece of the pie um yeah I
mean you know this from run your
business like if all you did was market
and you never sold anything or you never
uh had good customer service or good
like your business would fall apart like
you could have the best Marketing in the
world and it wouldn't matter and so I
think just understanding like I think
sometimes as marketers especially in as
you hang out in B2B spheres and all
that's it's like all right marketing and
revenue and marketing and revenue and
and like how do we DW you know and it's
well it's a it's an entire business if
if all these other functions weren't
needed we'd just have a marketing
team yeah yeah it's a great point and
sometimes like you say a lot of the time
you've got to have a leadership team
that un not necessarily has a full
understanding of of how marketing works
but is going to allow you to have some
Flex to say look this is the the plan
I've built out this is my hypothesis
that we're going to test this for six
months 12 months 18 months on this
program these are like some I don't know
qualitive outcomes we expect I.E when
someone books a demo or sales call they
might say after six months they listen
to our podcast so they they've received
our weekly emails or stuff like that
from a quantitative more statistical
level it might say more branded search
to our website more direct traffic these
kind of things like these are the
signals that we can physically look out
for and that we can ping you and slack
as and when we see these upticks and
then on the back end yes we we'd hope to
see some sales demos but it's not going
to be bang chances are we're probably
selling a B2B Solution that's cost more
than 20 bucks it's probably five fig six
figures per year and how often do you
wake up and decide to spend six figs on
an offer there's usually a lot more that
goes into it you're going to do your
research on Google you're going to
listen to videos you're going to listen
to podcast you're GNA ask your peers
like and there's probably multiple
people at that company that have to sign
off on that DEC like you know what I
mean like you might have the best we've
all I'm sure there's tons of people
listening that have had this situ like
you've got that champion but then or
maybe you've been that champion before
inside a company and like we really need
this this is going to be great and then
it you know rains down for that no we're
not doing that it's like
okay yeah yeah yeah sometimes like you
say it's just talking about your team
just thinking like when you last bought
as a
seriously big piece of software or
service like what was that Journey like
and then some of the stuff they start
telling you would be like well we
googled it then we had a chat then we
went to a conference then we went to a
trade then we forgot about it for three
months and we heard a podcast and we
googled it again it's like
exactly so um sometimes things need to
be flipped on the head and and thoughts
need to be challenged so yeah all for
that anything else that we should add in
that I've not touched on Justin around
this strategy that to to make sure it's
going to be a success and folks have got
the the ideas and strategies to take
away and put into play I mean we we
touched on a lot of it I think there
there's so many nuances within each
section
um I'm actually working on building a
lot of this stuff out inside of uh my
membership the distribution first
membership and and trying to help people
actually build the these things out and
be able to be consistent with these
things because there is a lot of nuance
on it but at the same time uh it is just
that taking that step back and building
out the system ahead of uh ahead of
trying to you know do too much at once I
think that's one of the one of the
biggest struggles that folks have is is
just trying to do too many things at
once head gets spinning and then you you
end up not doing wanting to do anything
at all and so if I could just encourage
folks to be you know go to go to phase
one start those you know from the from
those steps and really build your
foundation understand why you're
creating what you're creating what your
opinion is on uh the content that you're
creating that you can weave in what's
your state and then what channels are
you going to share those on and then you
know like I said tap tap back into your
existing content um there there are just
probably hundreds of thousands uh
millions of pieces of content out there
on the world that are not ranking on
Google um but are just sitting on your
site waiting to be shared again and so I
think being able to understand what you
have as an existing asset that you've
already created and then being able to
reuse that um that's an asset that is an
asset for you it's an investment you
have made and now you you get the
awesome opportunity to go tap back into
that don't get me started about how many
B2B SAS companies are pumping out 10 15
20 blog articles a month that have no
search value they don't even do basic
keyword research all they need to do is
go into tool at H ref or semrush look
for a relevant keyword and structure the
article properly with the URL the
metadata The Heading tags and they could
start getting that ranking like
some of that stuff is painful man anyway
Justin really appreciate the breakdown
thanks for sharing your wisdom with us
on all things content Distributing with
that said please do tell us more about
how folks can learn from you and connect
with you best ways to get in touch yeah
absolutely um so two the two best ways
to to get to kind of know what we're all
about at distribution first one is we
have a podcast called distribution first
comes out every week um literally right
now we are in a series where we're
breaking down the entire framework so
great time to start listening if you
haven't been um and so we're going to
break down the the framework bit by bit
and then on on the more advanced side if
this is something you want to Implement
at your company or you want to learn how
to do distribution first for your
business uh I have a full membership in
community uh that has monthly trainings
group uh workshops and in a full-on
community where we're we're actually
helping people level up on this exact
topic specifically distribution
repurposing uh and remixing content and
you can learn more about that at
distribution first.
Club Legend put all of those links in
the show notes and descriptions below
with that thanks once again Justin enjoy
the chat
awesome cheers man and as always if you
enjoyed today's episode why not join
thousands of B2B Legends enjoying our
weekday newsletter head over to Breaking
bb.com hit that newsletter Tab and
you'll get some more unusual B2B
marketing stories experiments SEO ideas
and podcast releases and with that we'll
catch you on the next one for more no BS
btb marketing tips to grow your business
grow your Revenue cheers for tuning in
catch you soon
[Music]